[IMP] Inventory: units of measure - group products in POS (#19014)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/product_management/configure/uom.rst

Buy products in the purchase UoM
--------------------------------

When creating a new request for quotation (RFQ) in the **Purchase** app, Odoo automatically uses the
product's specified purchase unit of measure. If needed, manually edit the :guilabel:`UoM` value on
the |RFQ|.

After the |RFQ| is confirmed into a |PO|, click the :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button at the top of
the |PO|.

Odoo automatically converts the purchase unit of measure into the product's sales and inventory unit
of measure, so the :guilabel:`Demand` column of the delivery receipt shows the converted quantity.

.. example::
   When the product's purchase :guilabel:`UoM` is `Dozens`, and its sales and inventory unit of
   measure is `Units`, the |PO| shows the quantity in cartons of 12, and the receipt (and other
   internal warehouse documents) shows the quantity in units.

   .. figure:: uom/on-po.png
      :alt: Image of a purchase order that is using the purchase unit of measure.

>       An order of three quantities is placed using the purchase "UoM": `Dozens`.

Reviewer: shouldn't it be two since the total is 24 units?

<img width="839" height="406" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/481aac9e-b4b7-4f2c-840d-4ecbababe29c" />

```suggestion
      An order of two `Dozens`, the purchase "UoM".
```

Replenishment
-------------

> A request for quotation for a product can also be generated directly from the product form using the

Reviewer: Out of scope for this update, just wanted to share a thought! 

Imo, this section might be covering more than it needs to. The Replenish button is a manual replenishment mechanism, and the detailed instructions on how to use it to reorder items probably belong in the Inventory documentation's replenishment section instead? That seems like a more natural home for that level of detail, what do you think? 

For this doc specifically, I'd suggest keeping the Replenishment section, but scoping it down: rather than walking through the full instructional steps for using the Replenish button, we could describe it at a high level and focus on how it relates to units of measure. For example, noting what the default unit of measure is in the popup window would give readers the context they need without duplicating the how-to content that already lives (or should live) in Inventory replenishment docs.

That way this doc stays focused on what's relevant here, and the step-by-step instructions live where someone would actually go looking for them! :D

Sell in a different UoM
-----------------------

When creating a new quotation in the **Sales** app, Odoo automatically uses the product's specified
unit of measure. If needed, the :guilabel:`UoM` can be manually edited on the quotation.

.. image:: uom/on-so.png
   :alt: Two dozen eggs are being sold in a sales order.

After the quotation is sent to the customer, and confirmed into a sales order (SO), click the
:guilabel:`Delivery` smart button at the top of the |SO|. Odoo automatically converts the unit of
measure into the product's inventory unit of measure, so the :guilabel:`Demand` column of the
delivery shows the converted quantity.

> For example, if the product's |UOM| on the |SO| was changed to `Dozens`, but its inventory unit of

Reviewer: Minor nitpick: was wondering why in the purchase section, we used the example admonition and in the sales section, we didn't? It's just my opinion but the inconsistency distracts me a little bit 😅

measure is `Units`, the |SO| shows the quantity in dozens, and the delivery shows the quantity in
units.

.. image:: uom/on-delivery.png
   :alt: 24 eggs are delivered from the SO with two dozen eggs.

Group units of measure in the POS app
=====================================

When a customer orders multiple units of the same product at a POS register, the register and the
:doc:`customer display <../../../../sales/point_of_sale/shop/customer_display>` may become
cluttered.

Products can be grouped by unit of measure in the POS register and on the customer display.

To do so, follow these steps:

#. Enable :doc:`developer mode <../../../../general/developer_mode>`.

> #. Open the *Units of Measure Categories* page by navigating to :menuselection:`Inventory app -->

Reviewer: just a personal preference, no need to implement! Rather than italics here, I'd personally link to the subsection within this doc using a `ref` so someone could click to get to that section quicker!

   Configuration --> UoM Categories`.
#. Select a unit of measure category.

> #. Enable :guilabel:`Group Products in POS`.

Reviewer: Personally, I'd be very specific about what UI element it is, so people can be more likely to find it! 

Also, let's include a screenshot of this setting! I've heard consistent feedback from support that customers need more images when configuring things

<img width="275" height="193" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1452b331-df72-46fd-836e-310279a92723" />

```suggestion
#. Enable the :guilabel:`Group Products in POS` checkbox.
```

After this setting is enabled, items are grouped in the POS register. The number of that unit of

> measure and the price are displayed.

Reviewer: Perhaps add a seealso at the end here, linking to the POS doc on product configuration? (: 

https://www.odoo.com/documentation/19.0/applications/sales/point_of_sale/products.html#product-units
